# 3.7 Activities at Community Events

The project team also hosted its own community events. One such event, Salishan Story Fest, is described in more detail below. Before describing that event, though, we would like to describe the individual activities.

### Story Mapping

An online map that allows participants to add stories about a specific place or area through the submission of an online form. See section See [Appendix F](../appendix-further-reading-and-resources/appendix-f.-technical-resources.md) for some mapping tools that work for us.&#x20;

### Co-design Workshops

Co-design is a process by which you involve users in the creation of the thing that they are going to use. Early involvement of users in the design process can help to ensure that your archive is designed to meet the needs of your community, to ensure that it is actually used by them.&#x20;

Co-design workshops invite community members to describe how they want to use the archive, and to provide feedback on how you are planning to design and implement the archive.&#x20;

### Gallery Walk

This is a silent activity in which participants can write responses to given questions or prompts on large butcher paper using smaller post-it notes. Participants may also read other people’s responses and make comments or put a star next to ones they think are important.

### Presentations

Historical accounts of the community where the event is taking place.

### Storytelling

Personal stories from community members about growing up in the neighborhood.

### Digitization

Scanning and preserving of photographs, written pieces, documents, certificates, diplomas, articles, and postcards.

### Create Your Own Comic Book

Largely for the youth, but all ages are welcome to draw and design their own story in a comic book form. Comic books are provided as examples and a resident artist from the library provides guidance.

### Information Tables (aka Tabling)

Community organizations join events by sharing their information and providing give-away items.
